[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hey, I'm Ashleigh Sergeant
and welcome to "Everyday
Enlightenment," your go-to
show for tips on how to be more
conscious in the midst
of your busy modern life.
In these times where we
see tragedy and conflict
on the news just
about every day,
it's natural to feel
angry, devastated,
and the need to possibly
choose sides and defeat that
which we think is against us.
But how can we stand
firm on our beliefs
in a way that is
lovingly defiant to that
which we know is not in service
of the highest good for all?
My guest today is Matt Kahn.
He is a highly attuned
empathic healer
who has become a YouTube
sensation with his healing
and oftentimes humorous videos.
Matt, thanks so much for
being here with me today.
>> Thanks for having me.
It's an honor to be here.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
Great to be with you.
So these are some pretty
big and real things
we're talking about.
And I know that your teachings
are really profoundly based
on love and open heartedness.
What's your concept
around working
with some of these really
challenging things that
are going on in the world,
people who are spiritual beings
and want to remain spiritually
open in the face of some
of these things happening
in our world right now?
>> Well, I think the first
step is examining the truth
of self-responsibility.
In the way that I teach in the
open-hearted path as I call it,
it really is centered
in self-responsibility.
And self-responsibility
isn't the guilt of I'm
creating the world in view.
But that actually, the way I
feel is not caused by the world
that I see, but the
world that I see
is actually reflecting to me
the depths of a healing journey
I may not know I'm on.
When people are in
fight or flight,
when people are in
defensiveness, when they're
in judgments, where as you said
before, when they're choosing
us versus them, or
right versus wrong,
or even light versus dark,
we're in a state of division.
And if we're in a state of
division, no matter the things
that we're projecting
our judgments onto,
it is proof and evidence
that our nervous system
is going through a
recalibration process.
When we awaken in consciousness,
our nervous systems
get recalibrated.
During the process
of recalibration,
the nervous system is what
triggers the fight or flight--
is what causes us to take sides.
So in effect, we
have an entire world
going through a massive
healing and awakening process,
not knowing the inner workings
of the healing process.
And so then judging or
projecting onto the world that
is showing us the healing
process, the ability
to take sides and
maintain an external war,
that is really helping to
bring us into consciousness
with the inner
turmoil within us.
And so when I teach
an open-hearted path,
it is simply because
the opening of the heart
is what relaxes
the nervous system.
When we talk about the
thinning of the veils and unity
consciousness awakening
in human beings,
it is actually the veil
is as thick or as thin
as the density of our
own corpus callosum.
As we awaken in
consciousness, that division
between the left and right
hemisphere of the brain
thins to create coherence
between the two opposing
forces within our own self.
And as that occurs, our
nervous system is rewired
and our heart has
permission to open.
So the question is,
what allows our heart
to open, to relax
our nervous system,
to create a perception
of unity, instead
of a misperception of division?
And in my teachings, it is
the loving of our own selves,
the embracing of our own hearts,
the embracing of the emotions
that life brings up in us.
Whether we see it as
us versus them or not,
it is the
self-responsibility of loving
what arises in our own self that
allows us to unravel the ego
and to embody the
light of our soul,
but in the most
heart-centered way.
>> So what you're saying
is, if I understand,
is that by instead of kind
of pushing these emotions
and things away and
saying, oh, my gosh,
I shouldn't be feeling
this adversity.
Or what I think I see
talked about a lot
in the spiritual
communities is, I'm
not even going to pay
attention to that stuff that's
going on in the world.
It's dark.
It's fear based.
And I'm just going to
remain in this heart space--
is no.
We're not talking about
that which could potentially
be maybe the realm of
spiritual bypassing.
>> Of course.
>> But rather, actually letting
what is happening in the world
around us and our experience
with it be that which fuels
our internal transformation
and into more openheartedness.
>> 100%.
So it's not I'm choosing to
be in love instead of fear.
It is I'm choosing
to be the love that
welcomes fear, like
a child in my heart
that is only here to
be loved and nurtured
and to gain the attention, the
respect, and the acknowledgment
that it needs to
complete its journey.
It's as if all these emotions in
our body like trapped emotions
haven't had a chance to
fully express themselves.
And we as parents to these
emotions, like parents
are with their
children, we're here
to hold these feelings
in our sacred heart.
We're here to let them
voice their opinion.
We're here to give them
the unconditional love,
and attention, and affection
that they truly deserve,
whether they act in
a loving way or not.
Just like with children,
we don't always--
we don't withhold our
love, because a child
isn't being loving.
We love the children
who often act out
when they crave attention.
So in the same way, our emotions
are doing the same exact thing.
And for people who are not in
tune with the emotions that
need love, we have the
perception of a world around us
that will do the spectacular
exquisite job of being
any particular
environment or injustice,
to bring our attention
to that within us that
needs that loving attention.
So we're not trying to
be love instead of fear.
It's a very old paradigm way
of looking at that shift.
Instead, we're actually looking
at love is not an emotion.
Love is that which embraces
the arc of any emotion.
So love is the attention, the
respect, the companionship,
and the nurturing
affection that we're
willing to give
all parts of self,
knowing full well that any
darkness that lingers within us
is the light begging
to be recognized.
>> And so how do we see that
as it connects to really
if someone is looking for this
pathway to be a path that they
utilize as one of their
tools in an activism role,
or in a role that
we can feel that?
How am I actually actively
helping the world,
while not engaging
in this paradigm that
feels that if I'm really
going to be doing something,
I have to be in
adversity in some way?
And that's my own
words around it.
I'd love to hear if that's
kind of your perspective
or if you have a different
way of looking at it.
>> Well, no.
I would agree with you.
And I just think specifically
when-- so we talk
about two different things.
Sacred activism,
which is external
empowered decision-making
that affects
the greater good of all.
>> External empowered
decision-making?
>> Decision-making that affects
the greater good of all.
>> And will you explain--
break down external empowered
decision-making?
I like that.
>> Yes.
So sacred activism or as I just
said, it kind of came to me.
When we are in that
vibration of sacred activism,
our external empowered
decision-making--
I love what I bring,
just something
brand new in the moment--
is actually
decisions and choices
for what we're for
and not against.
When our decisions are trying
to take down what we're against,
that is actually a sign
that our inner activist
has become an
inner victim and is
a reminder that our nervous
system has got disrupted.
It is overstimulated.
And we are now trying to be an
activist from a state of fight
or flight.
That is like an inner
alarm clock that goes
off emotionally
that says, I'm not
going to perpetuate
external war.
I'm going to stop and give
time to my inner turmoil,
because right now, I'm fighting
against something instead
of what I'm for.
So I take the time to be
with my own heart to tune
into my inner child, to
the innocence within me
that hurts as a reflection
of those that hurt me.
And how can I be
that for myself,
which my past
neglected to offer me?
I think a lot of times people
get so gung-ho on activism
that we don't stop
to decide, am I
making decisions
for what I'm for
or fighting against something?
And whenever we're
against something,
that is literally the evidence
that we need to pull ourselves
off of a battlefield.
We need to take time to
really love our own self
and not be so attached
to the outcomes we're
trying to promote,
that we disregard
our own internal healing.
Because sacred activism
is only a change
that will be
brought to the world
by a collective force of
aligned heart-centered beings.
So we learn to know
when we're aligned
and when we're not aligned.
When we're against something,
we stop right then and there.
Because no amount of action
from a misaligned place
is going to do anything
but promote the very energy
that many people are against.
And so then we switch sides, not
knowing it, with a wellness--
>> That's running our
movements or our actions.
>> Right.
With a well-intended,
optimistic campaign,
we're actually
feeling the things.
We have more things to defeat.
So whenever we're
against something,
we stop what we're doing.
We make time to love ourselves.
If we can't stop in the
midst of an activist campaign
to love ourself, it is proof
that the ego is using activism
to perpetuate its own
illusionary nature.
And of course, if
it's coming from ego,
it's only going to
perpetuate more ego, which
creates a vacuum in the
world for more things for us
to pose to show up.
So when we are aligned
in sacred activism,
our empowered external
decision-making is about,
what am I for?
Our choices are like votes.
And we vote every day on
the quality of our food.
We vote every day by how much
compassion we show others.
We vote every day by teaching
the world how to treat us,
by how we treat others.
And the moment we
turn against anything,
that's an alarm clock that stops
us in the midst of our activism
and says, let me make time
to be here for myself.
Because if I don't have
the awareness of what
I need at any given
moment, then it's
just another layer
of ego that is
using an optimistic, activist
campaign to perpetuate
the very thing
that we are trying
as lightworkers to unravel
for the well-being of all.
>> That's beautiful.
>> Thank you.
>> I remember having an
experience of that a few
years-- well, for many
years at this point.
But I had a teacher
share with me
that if we have an experience
that someone else's truth--
simply by them
voicing their truth
is somehow threatening my truth.
And that's an alarm clock
right there to go off.
And I feel like
that's really what
you're saying there is that
we can actually disagree.
It's kind of an external thing.
We can disagree
on some things we
want to, have different
fundamental views or opinions.
But in engaging in a
conversation about that--
if it becomes that, oh, well,
just by you voicing that,
my belief is threatened.
>> Sure.
>> And I feel smaller.
And I feel like I
have to defend this.
>> Yes.
>> Then this energy comes up.
And we are no longer
just being in the truth
of our belief, our open
heart, our connection
to consciousness, our
connection to one another.
And instead, we're in
defense mode right away.
>> Absolutely.
>> Same thing.
>> I would even add to that and
say if you have a truth that
if someone could oppose
it, would trigger you
on the inside, you
haven't found your truth.
>> Beautiful.
>> Because any person's truth
is their innocent nature begging
for the right to be passionate.
And most people have lived
such disempowered lives
where they have been
shut down by others,
or they shut down
their psychic abilities
to be more approved
by their families.
Or they've been told by their
families, please keep quiet.
You're too much.
Whatever the feedback
has been, most people
are begging for the
right to be passionate.
And because they've
been rejected,
they tend to be passionate about
things that guarantee rejection
from other people.
Because the biggest fear in ego
is if someone connects with me,
now I have something to lose.
And that's where everyone
is trying to avoid.
An ego as the threat of loss.
So when you are in the
presence of someone who
is running a sabotage
program, who believes with all
of their heart that they are
passionate about something that
does not match or
mirror the ethics
and values of your
deepest spiritual beliefs,
you are literally witnessing
a little child in a very adult
body, begging for the
right to be passionate,
but is playing out
a rejection pattern.
Because they're more familiar
with rejection from their past
than be accepted by others.
And if we could
show that people,
no matter what they
say or believe--
it doesn't mean
by allowing people
to be passionate about something
that you do not support.
It doesn't mean you support it.
It means you support
that individual's right
to be passionate.
And as soon as people have
the right to be passion--
or passionate-- their
inner wellspring
of anger, resentment,
and frustration actually
can erupt a new
wellspring of creativity.
And creativity erupts in a
conscious being or an awakening
being.
Then the perspective
widens to become
something more vast and
more of unity consciousness.
And we're all inclusive than
what they were defending.
So if we simply give people
the right to be passionate.
I remember I was having a
conversation with someone who
was completely hell
bent on believing
in racial stereotypes.
And my response to them is,
thank you for sharing with me
what you are passionate about.
Because my conversation was not,
do I or don't I agree with you?
My conversation is, you have
a right to be passionate.
And in that conversation
there was a breakthrough.
Because I was giving their
inner innocence, their soul
permission and not getting
tangled in the conversation
of right versus wrong.
>> That's a beautiful example.
>> Thank you.
>> It's powerful.
>> It's very powerful.
And it's really time for
all of us as lightworkers,
as spiritual beings to
really raise the bar.
Are we really living
in a world where
someone can come up to us, and
hold an opposing point of view,
and it can really
ruffle our feathers?
Is that really all that we
need is for someone on TV
to play the role of a character
who does things that could be
verbally malicious and hurtful?
But as people, can we not
see the opportunity to--
from a more expanded
perspective,
from the eyes of consciousness,
from the heart of compassion,
can we not see the hurt that
is begging for approval?
And can we start to
rehabilitate those
that we've opposed, instead
of fighting against the things
that we're perpetuating
by shutting down?
>> Well, Matt, I think this
concept of sacred activism
and being for something instead
of against something and really
making choices in everything
that we do that is
for our truth is such
a beautiful concept,
and that it really is
possible to land it.
But I think it feels intangible
sometimes for people.
So do you mind sharing with
us a couple really specific
and grounded tips
on, how do we stand
in this place of sacred
activism with love and instead
of adversity?
Would you share with
us a couple of things
that we can do anywhere,
anytime to stand
in this light of the
open-hearted path?
>> Absolutely.
Lightworkers,
empaths, friends, we
are in a time in history
where opening our heart
is a vital necessity, not just
for the happiness of our lives,
not for the fulfillment of
our everyday experiences,
but as a way of
raising the vibration
for this beloved
planet, as it transforms
into a brand new planet
of unity consciousness.
So when we find ourselves
in these situations
where our sacred activism
is really being challenged,
there is a couple
of things we can do.
The first thing is
we have to stand
for a truth that is all for the
free expression of every human
being.
We have to learn that
people that oppose
are just begging to be heard.
And when you're in a
situation with someone,
whether a conversation, whether
you're reading something
online, maybe someone
posed something
on social media that is contrary
to your personal belief.
The first place
we go is two-fold.
The first place is to
adjust our breathing.
Because when we
breathe slower and more
mindfully than the
world, we unhook
from the collective
unconsciousness of the world.
And by slowing our breath, we're
bringing more life force energy
into our body, which
we then can radiate out
for the well-being of others.
And as we slow our
breath, we focus more
on listening to those who
project their disempowerment,
instead of deciding what our
rhetoric, or our response,
or our reaction should be.
So we have to learn
the sacred activist,
that even though
we're going to take
great external
action in the world,
we're going to band together.
And we're going to create the
world that we want to see.
It actually begins
from the inside out,
that we're going to pause
when we get triggered.
We're going to slow our breath.
And we're going to abide
in a state of listening,
knowing that anyone
who is attacking,
anyone who is opposing
is fighting to be heard.
And if we let anyone
be heard first,
there is a space that is created
where more likely than not,
someone becomes more open to
hearing you shortly thereafter.
So we slow our breath.
We lead with listening.
And if we still
get triggered, we
take time to love
our own hearts,
knowing that any person
is only stirring up
in us what is here for us to
accept, embrace, and love.
And from that space
of slowing our breath,
leading with listening,
and loving ourselves,
we are vibrationally
teaching the world by example
that we are safe enough to
open our hearts, to come out
of hiding, to take
off the mask of ego,
and to step into
our true identity
as embodiments of
source in physical form.
From my heart to
yours, I love you.
>> Matt, that was
really beautiful.
Thank you so much.
>> Thank you.
>> Such profound wisdom and
teachings that really have
the capacity to transform
ourselves and the world
in literally every moment,
because our breath is with us
always.
Yeah.
So thank you again for
being here with me today.
It's been a great pleasure
and joy to sit with you
and to speak together.
>> I'm glad.
>> Thank you so much for
joining me for "Everyday
Enlightenment."
I'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]